docs/guide/advanced/navigation-failures.md, before:

# Navigation Failures

> New in 3.4.0

When using `router-link`, Vue Router internally calls `router.push` to trigger a navigation. Depending on the current location and existing [Navigation Guards](./navigation-guards.md), this navigation might end up in a new page being shown, but there are a couple of situations where we will stay on the same page:

- We are already on the page we are trying to go to
- A navigation guard aborts the navigation by calling `next(false)`
- A navigation guard throws an error or calls `next(new Error())`

When using a regular `router-link`, **none of these failures will log an error**. However, if you are using `router.push` or `router.replace`, you might come across an _"Uncaught (in promise) Error"_ message followed by a more specific message in your console. This is part of the _Navigation Failures_ system in Vue Router and it is only available from version 3.2.0 onwards but existed for a long time before: through the two optional callbacks, `onComplete` and `onAbort` that can be passed to `router.push`. Since version 3.1.0, `router.push` and `router.replace` return a _Promise_ if no `onComplete`/`onAbort` callback is provided. This _Promise_ resolves instead of invoking `onComplete` and rejects instead of invoking `onAbort`.

## Detecting Navigation Failures

_Navigation Failures_ are `Error` instances with a few extra properties. To check if an error comes from the Router, use the `isNavigationFailure` function:

```js
import { NavigationFailureType, isNavigationFailure } from 'vue-router'

// trying to access the admin page
router.push('/admin').catch(failure => {
  if (isNavigationFailure(failure, NavigationFailureType.redirected)) {
    // show a small notification to the user
    showToast('Login in order to access the admin panel')
  }
})
```

::: tip
If you omit the second parameter: `isNavigationFailure(failure)`, it will only check if the error comes from the Router.
:::

## `NavigationFailureType`

`NavigationFailureType` exposes the following properties to differentiate _Navigation Failures_:

- `redirected`: `next(newLocation)` was called inside of a navigation guard to redirect somewhere else.
- `aborted`: `next(false)` was called inside of a navigation guard to the navigation.
- `cancelled`: A new navigation completely took place before the current navigation could finish. e.g. `router.push` was called while waiting inside of a navigation guard.
- `duplicated`: The navigation was prevented because we are already at the target location.

## _Navigation Failures_'s properties

All navigation failures expose `to` and `from` properties to reflect the current location as well as the target location for the navigation that failed:

```js
// trying to access the admin page
router.push('/admin').catch(failure => {
  if (isNavigationFailure(failure, NavigationFailureType.redirected)) {
    failure.to.path // '/admin'
    failure.from.path // '/'
  }
})
```

In all cases, `from` and `to` are normalized route locations.

Commit message:

docs: split background story and explanation [skip ci]

docs/guide/advanced/navigation-failures.md, after:

# Navigation Failures

> New in 3.4.0

When using `router-link`, Vue Router internally calls `router.push` to trigger a navigation. Depending on the current location and existing [Navigation Guards](./navigation-guards.md), this navigation might end up in a new page being shown, but there are a couple of situations where we will stay on the same page:

- We are already on the page we are trying to go to
- A navigation guard aborts the navigation by calling `next(false)`
- A navigation guard throws an error or calls `next(new Error())`

When using a regular `router-link`, **none of these failures will log an error**. However, if you are using `router.push` or `router.replace`, you might come across an _"Uncaught (in promise) Error"_ message followed by a more specific message in your console. Let's understand how to differentiate _Navigation Failures_.

::: tip Background story
 _Navigation Failures_ were exposed on version 3.2.0 but existed for a long time before: through the two optional callbacks of `router.push`, `onComplete` and `onAbort` that can be passed to `router.push`. Since version 3.1.0, `router.push` and `router.replace` return a _Promise_ if no `onComplete`/`onAbort` callback is provided. This _Promise_ resolves instead of invoking `onComplete` and rejects instead of invoking `onAbort`.
 :::

## Detecting Navigation Failures

_Navigation Failures_ are `Error` instances with a few extra properties. To check if an error comes from the Router, use the `isNavigationFailure` function:

```js
import { NavigationFailureType, isNavigationFailure } from 'vue-router'

// trying to access the admin page
router.push('/admin').catch(failure => {
  if (isNavigationFailure(failure, NavigationFailureType.redirected)) {
    // show a small notification to the user
    showToast('Login in order to access the admin panel')
  }
})
```

::: tip
If you omit the second parameter: `isNavigationFailure(failure)`, it will only check if the error is a _Navigation Failure_.
:::

## `NavigationFailureType`

`NavigationFailureType` exposes the following properties to differentiate _Navigation Failures_:

- `redirected`: `next(newLocation)` was called inside of a navigation guard to redirect somewhere else.
- `aborted`: `next(false)` was called inside of a navigation guard to the navigation.
- `cancelled`: A new navigation completely took place before the current navigation could finish. e.g. `router.push` was called while waiting inside of a navigation guard.
- `duplicated`: The navigation was prevented because we are already at the target location.

## _Navigation Failures_'s properties

All navigation failures expose `to` and `from` properties to reflect the current location as well as the target location for the navigation that failed:

```js
// trying to access the admin page
router.push('/admin').catch(failure => {
  if (isNavigationFailure(failure, NavigationFailureType.redirected)) {
    failure.to.path // '/admin'
    failure.from.path // '/'
  }
})
```

In all cases, `from` and `to` are normalized route locations.
